# Experiment 9 (Microarchitectural Analysis and Characterization of Performance Overheads in Service Meshes with Kubernetes Paper Latency Analysis Experiment)

For this experiment, the workload generated by the load generators will replicate the workload stressing the DeathStarBench applications running on Docker (we can skip this as Experiments 3 and 4 experiment with Docker, although those two experiments have different machine specs than the main one), Kubernetes 1.21, and Istio 1.13.2.

Paper: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10270428

They used wrk2 configurations of a "fixed" distribution, 32 threads, and 64 connections. 

## Purpose of this experiment
This paper was submitted at ASIANCON 2023 conference in Ravet, Pune, India. However, depending on the previous experiment results, wrk2 and other load generators can give wrong results, and this puts the reliability of this paper's analysis into question.

## Experiment design
This paper used an unmanaged Kubernetes cluster with 32 cores CPU and 64GB RAM running Ubuntu 20.04 and with Kubernetes version 1.21.4 and Istio 1.13.2. We can replicate this setup by using 4 r320 Apt Cloudlab machines (each machine has 8 cores and 16 GB RAM). We could also use one of the 32 core machines, but those machines have more memory than 64GB.

In one cluster, set up Istio. In another cluster, set up Kubernetes. 

In one more machine, run the workload generator. Run the specifications that the papers ran (try to mimic those specifications of the other papers).

## Setup instructions
